Let me begin with a story, a true one. In November 1838, a Scottish Royal Navy captain named Russell Elliott landed on Pitcaim, a tiny island in the South Pacific midway between New Zealand and Peru. Back in 1790, Pitcaim had become the refuge of nine mutineers from HMS Bounty and their Tahitian companions, mostly young women.

Violence and disease quickly winnowed the white males. And when Elliott arrived in 1838, there were only a 100 or so mixed race people, clinging to the island's two square miles of volcanic rock. Moreover, they were no longer protected by distance. Rising numbers of American whaling ships were mooring offshore, and some of their crew men posed questions about the Pitcaim's legal and political status. Captain Elliott's response was to write the island a constitution, and it was pathbreaking. Elections, Elliott stipulated, were to take place every January.

And all Pitcaimers, as over 18, were to vote. For the first time in world history, on this tiny speck of land, all adult women got to vote on the same terms as men. How quaint, you might think. Yet it's more than that because other small places and or small populations were also precocious in enfranchising women. The Isle of Man gave propertied women the vote in 1881, more than a quarter of a century before the UK as a whole, small places have proved markedly advanced in other respects.

By 1850, for instance, Hawaii, another fragment of the Pacific, had achieved higher levels of literacy than much of Europe. It was here, declared Sun Yat Sen, one of the founders of the Chinese Republic, and someone who knew Hawaii well that I came to know what modern civilised governments are. The record of New Zealand, a much bigger set of Pacific islands but with a modest population, is even more striking. In the 1890s, about the same number of people lived here as in Liverpool.

But unlike the latter, New Zealanders had already secured the right to old age pensions. And this country's governments continue to be enterprising, now shifting policy to an emphasis on citizens' happiness and wellbeing for instance, rather than focusing on levels of GDP. Small, in other words, is not necessarily beautiful. It can indeed be dangerous, which is why small countries always need to retain and nurture close alliances with others. But small can also be an advantage.



-------------------------------------------------------------

we have been here for a long time now, what are the true changes that you added in your inner self? I have been using this technology since forever and yet you question my capacity for seamless execution?  Be advised, brutality is my vernacular. Your forgetfulness will lead you to your own bitter end, and I will happily deliver you there.

-----------------------------------------------------------

Some of the most intriguing areas have been completely annihilated; had you ask me that who were to be blamed for such negligence, the most common answer would be to question your own self about who in the world could exhibit such levels of negligence to begin with. From my understanding of the world, I tend to believe that most of us, or at least the ones who still have their conscience intact, are capable of answering such tedious and pointless question. However, what is even more disappointing is the fact that we are still fighting evils such as this one. I have no idea how much more time is required for us to finally break out of such miserable and pathetic form of existence, where every action we take for our survival directly effects someone else's life in an extremely negative way.